The body cannot absorb any protein as such. If protein is absorbed directly into the blood stream, without first undergoing the processes of digestion, it is poisonous. Proteins must be broken down into simpler compounds known as amino acids before they can be absorbed and assimilated. Introduce the amino acids out of which proteins are made and all is well.

Animals are able only to analyze proteins in the process of digestion, and resynthesize the resulting amino acids into new and different proteins.

 It is held that the amino acids other than the ten or twelve indispensable ones can be made by the tissues from the essential amino acids, apparently by oxydizing them.

 Thus it may be seen that since the nutritive value of proteins is determined by the kinds and quantities of amino acids they contain, all proteins are not of equal value to the body and cannot be used interchangeably. 

 One protein corrects the defects of another.

 Green vegetables also contain high grade proteins, although in very small amounts. But when these are added to the diet in large quantities, as in consuming large daily salads, they are capable of supplementing the deficiencies in an all-cereal diet and rendering this adequate.

Green vegetables contain proteins of a very high quality, though in small quantities. Nuts, on the other hand, rank with or even surpass, flesh foods in the quantity of their proteins, while their proteins are of equal rank with those of flesh.

Disaccharides and polysaccharides are converted into monosaccharides in the process of digestion, as carbohydrates can be absorbed and assimilated only as monosaccharides. Starch must first be converted into sugar and the complex sugars must be converted into simple sugars before they are absorbed. 

 Three unsaturated fatty acids--linoleic, linolenic and arachaidonic--cannot be synthesized by the animal organism. Only one of these is considered essential, for, as in the case of certain amino acids, they can replace one another in animal nutrition. 

    The waste formed in the body, due to its normal activities, is acid in reaction. The greater part of the work of neutralizing these acids is done by the mineral elements--the "ash."

   If our foods do not contain enough of the right kinds of mineral salts we simply starve to death. It does not matter how much "good nourishing food," as this is commonly understood, that we consume, if these salts are not present in sufficient quantities we suffer from slow starvation, with glandular imbalance or disfunction, lowered resistance to "disease" and other evidences of decay.

   It[Iodine] is required for the digestion, assimilation and combustion of fats. When a shortage occurs the fats cannot be satisfactorily dealt with, and it is stored in the subcutaneous tissue.

   B1 vitamin == More is required during pregnancy and lactation than at other times.

   Mothers need it during the last two months of pregnancy and during lactation. Sunbathing by mothers will also be or great value.
   
      Darker colored vegetables have more vitamins. They are known to have more minerals. Sunshine favors vitamin storage. The green outer stalks and leaves of lettuce, cabbage, celery, etc., are more abundant in vitamins than the pale inner leaves and stalks. The green leaves of tubers possess more vitamins than the tubers.

The vitamins and minerals contained in fruits, vegetables and nuts are much more available than those derived from other sources.

...our ability to utilize vitamins depends upon the presence of other elements in our diet. To eat concentrated vitamins and not consume these other elements in equal proportions would simply waste much of the vitamins

In the ancient Hebrew writing (Exodus) we read: "And Moses said * * * Jehovah shall give you in the evening, flesh to eat, and in the morning, bread to the full, * * * and Jehovah spake unto Moses saying * * * at evening ye shall eat flesh, and in the morning ye shall be filled with bread."

Matured or "dried" beans of all types are known to every one to quickly ferment, when eaten, and produce much gas

  Certainly foods requiring an alkaline condition for their digestion should not be eaten with foods necessitating an acid condition for their digestion. Foods requiring an alkaline condition for digestion should not be eaten with acids.

  We know that the type of juice that is poured into the stomach is determined by the kind of food that is eaten.
  Liebig laid down a "law of the minimum" in these words: "The development of living beings is regulated by the supply of whichever element is least bountifully provided."


  ========
  IT Companies: Paying the Price

  People think the software engineers earn a lot and they live in metropolitan cities and shop and dine in best places. They work in air-conditioned offices, they dress well, they travel in cars, so on and so forth. All of them are true. But there are dark sides to that as well. I'm not going to discuss about mental and psychological effects but I'd like to point out a pervasive culture in IT.

  I work in an IT company.  As far as I've seen, there are very few creative and challenging jobs and the rest are drudgery.  Almost doing the same thing day in and day out. It's pretty boring and monotonuous.

  We spend a lot of time sitting at a desk and staring at a screen. If we're not working, we'll be browsing something. Shopping, e-newspapares, things like that. It obviously dulls the mind and makes us lethargic. So we crave for distractions just to get out of this rut. So what kind of distractions do we indulge in?

  I had a senior collegue who used to go and smoke every 30 to 40 minutes. I had another colleague who used to smoke 2 to 3 cigarettes at each break. People smoke a lot in IT. They can't seem to escape the vicious cycle of boredom, monotony, and smoking. We don't take breaks just for the sake of break. There has to be reason and smoking fits in nicely. You always have the company of friends and you can talk. It checks off many items in what Tony Robbins calls "The Six Human Needs" list. 

  Now, there's a second distraction. There are birthdays, there are occassions like marriages, births, promotions, return from vacations. In all these occassions, people bring sweets, chocolates, cakes, and condiments. There's no rhyme or reason to the variety of food items which fall on the table. They'll be left on the table for an entire day and it's very difficult to resist the temptation. They think, "What can one piece of sweet/chocolate/cake do?" So, they take a piece of cake, a chocolate, a sweet, few potato chips, a cup of soft-drink. Well, it doesn't matter much as it is once in while, does it? No, no. no. This happens without any schedule or plan. There are hundreds of employees and thousands of occasions. And who is to keep track of what each of us is eating? I've observed this for more than 8 years and the situation is getting worse and worse. I don't have the statistics but IT employees are becoming obese. Add to it the sedentary lifestyle, there's signing up for a bleak and painful retirment.

  Now, I guess this happens everywhere but in IT companies it is rampant. The parties! We go out and eat to our heart's content. A typical meal includes soups, starters, main course, desserts, soft drinks, fruit juices. Alcohol if you're up for it. I've never seen a worse food-combination than when we have a lot of food options and nobody knows how to eat.

  One would like to see a dietician and a nutritionist talking regularly to software employees, wouldn't they? Or we would be all be paying the price for the advantage we have over traditional jobs. 